layout: post
title: "Encora Academy Week #17"
---

This was the third week of the fourth phase of Encora Academy/Apprenticeship: your personal brand.

I began this week by writing my resume. I thought that it would be easy since earlier this year I spent quite some time drafting, asking for advice and doing some research for making a resume that would be effective in helping me land interviews. Even though that was helpful, I still struggled a bit this time. I have learned a lot during these months in the academy and it has definitely added a lot to my skillset... but how exactly should I express all that ? With help from my peers I was able to draft a first version although this is a work in progress so I have been reflecting on a couple of small changes that would be good to add.

After that, I reviewed my notes for the performance interview. I was quite anxious about this but felt good at the actual interview. I noticed how non-trivial it is to make an interviewee feel comfortable in order to facilitate answering the questions and providing elements for the evaluation. This also helped me notice some areas of knowledge that I need to strengthen. It is easy to assume that we know things but it is different to be able to demonstrate that knowledge because our communication skills are also involved in it.

After this I have been catching up with coding exercises and studying more web-dev related topics. I went back to CSS since I really need to catch up with it. I played [this game](https://codingfantasy.com/games/flexboxadventure) as a quick way to get familiar with flex-box.

One particular insight that I would like to share is about optimization. I read a little about it during these weeks and it became slightly less obscure, as I thought that it required a very elevated skillset or analysis. However, I was still unsure of how I would be able to do it in practice. One of the coding exercises that I solved this week required the solution to be optimized in order to pass all the tests. My first solution involved two nested for-loops. Based on what I previously read, I thought that I might try to get rid of at least one of the loops. I tried to 'run' the code in my mind to find steps that might be unnecessary inside the nested loops. I realized that what I was trying to find did not need to go through all the combinations of elements as I was doing with the nested loops. If I sorted the respective array, I could reduce the pairs that I should check in order to find the minimum difference so I could iterate over the sorted array just once. I wrote my second solution and it passed everything this time. I realized that, in order to optimize, it is essential to have a detailed understanding of what the code is doing. This implies being fully attentive to it, which sometimes I struggle with because I feel too anxious so I know that I have to keep working on this.
