---
layout: post
title: "Encora Academy Week #7"
---

This week has been huge, there has been so much going on.

I will try to go chronologically in this post.

At the beginning of the week, we still needed to define some key details of the flux of our project and since this was fundamental to set the tasks that each one of us would be doing, we started coding on Wednesday morning. We decided to use Java for the backend and React for the frontend (with Bulma as the css framework, initially).

I decided to collaborate on front-end tasks so I began my Wednesday by installing Bulma on npm (I had used it for the breakable toy assignment from week 5 but I had integrated it with cdn)... however, the team decided to switch to Material UI during Wednesday's daily standup so I started reading the respective documentation... I was a bit anxious about having so little time to incorporate a new CSS framework but it was ok, I immediately understood why my teammates proposed it since the documentation is quite wide and it helps to start doing things quickly on our own... and since we had little time, that was quite significant.

I spent all Wednesday and Thursday morning doing the layout of my assigned component but I still did not know very well how to incorporate the proper functionality... I had some recent experience from the breakable toy assignment but things were (well, are, to some extent) still not quite clear to me, since I still need to 'digest' a lot of it because I got so much help (and I feel so grateful about it) in such a quick time. I was rendering the components locally since I still was not sure of when and how incorporate them in our project repo, so I was basically quite on-my-own implementation.

On Thursday, we decided that we would not make it for the first demo so we asked staff for advice and they helped us reach the conclusion that we could record a video showing our progress and what were the next steps, so we could still get feedback from our clients. We decided that each one would record and explain the part that they had been working with, then upload it to a shared folder and the following morning (Friday) we would edit a full video with these clips.

I made the video edition and tried to arrange it in such a way that it followed the flux of the proposed system. For this, I watched all the clips first and then I realized that now I had a much better perspective of what everyone was doing and what still needed to be done... not in a detailed technical way of course but at least in general. 

This was more clear when I talked to one of my mentors and he told me that the impression that the video gave was that there was no integration between the different parts. 

After our client meeting, we felt a bit upset about our progress and we agreed on some significant blockers that the front-end and the whole team had: first of all, we did not exactly know how the project structure of the frontend was, we all had a general idea but we needed to actually have something in our repo. My mentor helped us to set a router where we could refer to the different views of our project. After that, we decided to define something like a front-end flux for the views and in this way we were able to have a better understanding of the frontend structure and our repo. Something cool that happened was realizing that we were doing a retrospective and how we needed to follow up on it.

Another blocker that we identified was that the tasks in our trello board were too broad so we did not really know what everyone was doing and how we were progressing, so we decided to break them into much smaller tasks. This was not trivial, as Atul Gawande says in his 2012 TED talk: in order to work as a system and not as individual entities, it is important to design and use checklists but it is not always easy. We could realize it on Saturday morning because we deliberately spent that time just to re-define our tasks. After that, we reassigned tasks and went back to coding.

Academic Nassim Nicholas Taleb coined the term of the 'black swan' as an event that is unpredictable and carries a huge impact so he proposes that the way to go is not trying to predict them (it is pointless since they are unpredictable) but to build robustness in order to reduce the impact that a black swan might have. A way to gain robustness is identifying and addressing areas of vulnerability. During the weekend we identified another vulnerability that is blocking us from progressing with our frontend tickets: we don't understand much about React and jumping straight to implementation without understanding some key basic concepts is slowing us down. So we agreed to spend a little time reading the documentation before going back to coding. 

The rest of the weekend was more about technical things... I still feel slower than most of the team but now I feel more comfortable to ask questions and also about knowing what everyone is up to. I feel so lucky that I have been learning a lot from my more experienced teammates. During the weekend I created new git branches (we agreed that for each ticket-task we would make a new branch) and moved between them, now I feel way more comfortable with git, compared to last week, it has been a significant improvement I think. I still need to catch up with React, I have found that a lot of the documentation and the stack-overflow questions use class-based components and we are using functional components so that is a bit confusing to me, so I think that I need to study a bit about how to write the same thing as a functional and as a class component so I can take advantage of the whole documentation and other resources that are out there. 

I am not going to lie, it has been scary everyday, I even was hesitant to share my screen with my teammates while coding because I did not want them to see how clumsy I still am but it is something that you just need to take the step and after that it gets a bit easier each time. I still feel weird about myself with regards to my technical background but I don't expect to feel different any time soon because I still have a lot to learn in order to have a skill level that allows me to implement code with the same speed as my teammates but I keep reminding myself that this feeling is part of the process and it is not realistic to not-feel uncomfortable (and vulnerability is powerful to some extent so yes, there is that).  At the end of the day, there is some kind of anti-fragility (becoming better through our struggles) element there.
