---
layout: post
title: "Encora Academy Month #2"
---
Another phase of the Academy has almost come to an end. In retrospective, I feel quite different to what I felt at the end of the previous phase. I feel that so many concepts that we learned on phase 1 make so much more sense now. The feeling of having been able to work as a team and produce something that might be helpful for someone else is quite rewarding. 

I still can't believe all that I have experienced at the technical level during this month. Being the novice in my team was quite intimidating during the first weeks but I am so grateful for how patient my teammates and mentors have been with me, they gradually made me feel safer to ask questions and this helped me to acquire some more tools that allowed me to be more helpful for my team, they provided continuous feedback that helped me to know how I can improve. With their example, they motivated me to improve my pull requests (being more descriptive in the notes, for example) and commits, to look at creative ways of reusing a react component, to subdivide the pending work into smaller chunks to have better visibility, etc.

Something that I think that maybe became our black swan was our estimation of the project scope. We struggled a lot because often we felt like we were not making enough progress and we probably spent quite some extra time figuring out how to adjust the scope or our project... this implies re-designing and re-planning, for example. At the same time, I am not sure how we would have come out with something simpler that still provided value for our client... maybe we missed some creativity? I don't know.

Despite that, something that certainly made a difference was splitting the tasks properly on our trello board. It is not something trivial, it really influenced how fast we understood a task and were able to start coding... as well as how to prioritize. This felt like the checklists that Atul Gawande talks about in his TED talk. The MoSCoW method was also very helpful: it helped us focus on the important things. We also did a couple of retrospectives and the funny thing was that we were not calling them like that but they just happened and the team was quite responsive to it, so correcting the path was quick in most cases.

At times it was hard to keep going, mostly because of what I mentioned earlier regarding the scope: it was difficult to actually believe that we would make it so at some point we did need some optimism bias just to feel some energy to continue. And this brings me to the antifragility. We certainly learned a lot from being uncomfortable and struggling during this month... but Dr Nicholas Taleb says that antifragility also needs recover time so the 'muscle' has room to grow. Most of us have also worked during the weekend so this is not something sustainable. We need to stay healthy and focused. I know that, due to my non-IT background I might take longer in completing the same task as others and this certainly influences the amount of time that I need to spend to meet the phase requirements so keeping time for resting will keep being a challenge but this is something that I do need to address in the following phase to take care of myself.
